docs/connect/sql-alchemy.mdx, before:

---
title: MindsDB and SQL Alchemy
sidebarTitle: SQL Alchemy
description:
  "SQL Alchemy is a Python package, or a Python SQL toolkit, that provides
  object-relational mapping features for the Python programming language."
---

SQL Alchemy facilitates working with databases and Python. You can download it
[here](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) or run a `pip install sqlalchemy` command if
you use a Linux system.

## How to Connect

Please follow the instructions below to connect your MindsDB to SQL Alchemy.

<Tabs>
        <Tab title="Connecting MindsDB Cloud to SQL Alchemy">
        You can use the Python code below to connect your Cloud MindsDB database to SQL Alchemy.

        Make sure you have the *pymysql* module installed before executing the Python code. To install it, run the `pip install pymysql` command.

        ```python
        from sqlalchemy import create_engine

        user = 'MindsDB Cloud username' # your Mindsdb Cloud email address is your username
        password = 'MindsDB Cloud password' # replace this value
        host = 'cloud.mindsdb.com'
        port = 3306
        database = ''

        def get_connection():
                return create_engine(
                        url="mysql+pymysql://{0}:{1}@{2}:{3}/{4}".format(user, password, host, port, database)
                )

        if __name__ == '__main__':
                try:
                        engine = get_connection()
                        engine.connect()
                        print(f"Connection to the {host} for user {user} created successfully.")
                except Exception as ex:
                        print("Connection could not be made due to the following error: \n", ex)
        ```

        </Tab>
        <Tab title="Connecting Local MindsDB to SQL Alchemy">
        You can use the Python code below to connect your Cloud MindsDB database to SQL Alchemy.

        Make sure you have the *pymysql* module installed before executing the Python code. To install it, run the `pip install pymysql` command.

        ```python
        from sqlalchemy import create_engine

        user = 'mindsdb'
        password = ''
        host = '127.0.0.1'
        port = 47335
        database = ''

        def get_connection():
                return create_engine(
                        url="mysql+pymysql://{0}:{1}@{2}:{3}/{4}".format(user, password, host, port, database)
                )

        if __name__ == '__main__':
                try:
                        engine = get_connection()
                        engine.connect()
                        print(f"Connection to the {host} for user {user} created successfully.")
                except Exception as ex:
                        print("Connection could not be made due to the following error: \n", ex)
        ```
        </Tab>

</Tabs>

Please note that we use the following connection details:

- Username is `mindsdb`
- Password is left empty
- Host is `127.0.0.1`
- Port is `47335`
- Database name is left empty

To create a database connection, execute the code above. On success, the following output is expected:

```bash
Connection to the 127.0.0.1 for user mindsdb created successfully.
```

<Note>
  The Sqlachemy `create_engine` is lazy. This implies any human error when
  entering the connection details would be undetectable until an action becomes
  necessary, such as when calling the `execute` method to execute SQL commands.
</Note>

## What's Next?

Now that you are all set, we recommend you check out our **Tutorials** and
**Community Tutorials** sections, where you'll find various examples of
regression, classification, and time series predictions with MindsDB.

To learn more about MindsDB itself, follow the guide on
[MindsDB database structure](/sql/table-structure/). Also, don't miss out on the
remaining pages from the **SQL API** section, as they explain a common SQL
syntax with examples.

Have fun!

Commit message:

Fixed connection details SQL Alchemy cloud conneciton docs.

docs/connect/sql-alchemy.mdx, after:

---
title: MindsDB and SQL Alchemy
sidebarTitle: SQL Alchemy
description:
  "SQL Alchemy is a Python package, or a Python SQL toolkit, that provides
  object-relational mapping features for the Python programming language."
---

SQL Alchemy facilitates working with databases and Python. You can download it
[here](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) or run a `pip install sqlalchemy` command if
you use a Linux system.

## How to Connect

Please follow the instructions below to connect your MindsDB to SQL Alchemy.

<Tabs>
        <Tab title="Connecting MindsDB Cloud to SQL Alchemy">
        You can use the Python code below to connect your Cloud MindsDB database to SQL Alchemy.

        Make sure you have the *pymysql* module installed before executing the Python code. To install it, run the `pip install pymysql` command.

        ```python
        from sqlalchemy import create_engine

        user = 'MindsDB Cloud username' # your Mindsdb Cloud email address is your username
        password = 'MindsDB Cloud password' # replace this value
        host = 'cloud.mindsdb.com'
        port = 3306
        database = ''

        def get_connection():
                return create_engine(
                        url="mysql+pymysql://{0}:{1}@{2}:{3}/{4}".format(user, password, host, port, database)
                )

        if __name__ == '__main__':
                try:
                        engine = get_connection()
                        engine.connect()
                        print(f"Connection to the {host} for user {user} created successfully.")
                except Exception as ex:
                        print("Connection could not be made due to the following error: \n", ex)
        ```

        Please note that we use the following connection details:

        - Username is your MindsDB Cloud email address
        - Password is your MindsDB Cloud password
        - Host is `cloud.mindsdb.com`
        - Port is `3306`
        - Database name is left empty

        To create a database connection, execute the code above. On success, the following output is expected:

        ```bash
        Connection to the cloud.mindsdb.com for user MindsDB-Cloud-Username created successfully.
        ```

        </Tab>
        <Tab title="Connecting Local MindsDB to SQL Alchemy">
        You can use the Python code below to connect your Cloud MindsDB database to SQL Alchemy.

        Make sure you have the *pymysql* module installed before executing the Python code. To install it, run the `pip install pymysql` command.

        ```python
        from sqlalchemy import create_engine

        user = 'mindsdb'
        password = ''
        host = '127.0.0.1'
        port = 47335
        database = ''

        def get_connection():
                return create_engine(
                        url="mysql+pymysql://{0}:{1}@{2}:{3}/{4}".format(user, password, host, port, database)
                )

        if __name__ == '__main__':
                try:
                        engine = get_connection()
                        engine.connect()
                        print(f"Connection to the {host} for user {user} created successfully.")
                except Exception as ex:
                        print("Connection could not be made due to the following error: \n", ex)
        ```

        Please note that we use the following connection details:

        - Username is `mindsdb`
        - Password is left empty
        - Host is `127.0.0.1`
        - Port is `47335`
        - Database name is left empty

        To create a database connection, execute the code above. On success, the following output is expected:

        ```bash
        Connection to the 127.0.0.1 for user mindsdb created successfully.
        ```
        </Tab>
</Tabs>

<br />


<Note>
  The Sqlachemy `create_engine` is lazy. This implies any human error when
  entering the connection details would be undetectable until an action becomes
  necessary, such as when calling the `execute` method to execute SQL commands.
</Note>

## What's Next?

Now that you are all set, we recommend you check out our **Tutorials** and
**Community Tutorials** sections, where you'll find various examples of
regression, classification, and time series predictions with MindsDB.

To learn more about MindsDB itself, follow the guide on
[MindsDB database structure](/sql/table-structure/). Also, don't miss out on the
remaining pages from the **SQL API** section, as they explain a common SQL
syntax with examples.

Have fun!
