docs/custom-model/openai.mdx, before:

---
title: MindsDB and OpenAI
sidebarTitle: OpenAI
---

MindsDB lets you create models that utilize features provided by OpenAI GPT-3.

## How to Bring the OpenAI Model to MindsDB

We use the [`CREATE MODEL`](/sql/create/predictor) statement to bring the OpenAI models to MindsDB.

Let's go through the available operation modes.

<Tip>
Please note that the examples presented here use SQL. To see how to create OpenAI models in Mongo database using MQL, check out [this example on sentiment classification](/nlp/nlp-mindsdb-openai#example-using-mql).
</Tip>

### Operation Mode 1: Answering Questions without Context

Here is how to create a model that answers questions without context:

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_a
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question',
    api_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY';
```

Where:

| Expression                   | Description                                                                                                                          |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `project_a.openai_test_a`    | The model name is `openai_test_a` and it resides inside the `project_a` project. Learn more about [MindsDB projects here](/sql/project/).|
| `answer`                     | It is the value to be predicted.                                                                                                     |
| `engine`                     | The `openai` engine is used.                                                                                                         |
| `question_column`            | It is the column that stores input data.                                                                                             |
| `api_key`                    | Optional. If it is left blank, or the `env` value is passed, then MindsDB fetches the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable value.   |

Let's look at an example.

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_a
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
Query successfully completed
```

Now we can query for answers.

```sql
SELECT question, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_a
WHERE question = 'Where is Stockholm located?';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+---------------------------+-------------------------------+
|question                   |answer                         |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------+
|Where is Stockholm located?|Stockholm is located in Sweden.|
+---------------------------+-------------------------------+
```

### Operation Mode 2: Answering Questions with Context

Here is how to create a model that answers questions with context:

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_b
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question',
    context_column = 'context',
    api_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY';
```

Where:

| Expression                   | Description                                                                                                                          |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `project_a.openai_test_b`    | The model name is `openai_test_b` and it resides inside the `project_a` project.                                                     |
| `answer`                     | It is the value to be predicted.                                                                                                     |
| `engine`                     | The `openai` engine is used.                                                                                                         |
| `question_column`            | It is the column that stores input data being a question.                                                                            |
| `context_column`             | It is the column that stores input data being a context.                                                                             |
| `api_key`                    | Optional. If it is left blank, or the `env` value is passed, then MindsDB fetches the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable value.   |

Let's look at an example.

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_b
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question',
    context_column = 'context';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
Query successfully completed
```

Now we can query for answers.

```sql
SELECT context, question, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_b
WHERE context = 'Answer with a joke'
AND question = 'How to cook soup?';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+-------------------+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
|context            |question          |answer                                                   |
+-------------------+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
|Answer with a joke |How to cook soup? |How do you cook soup? You put it in a pot and heat it up!|
+-------------------+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Operation Mode 3: Prompt Completion

Here is how to create a model that offers the most flexible mode of operation. It answers any query provided in the `prompt_template` parameter.

<Tip>
Good prompts are the key to getting great completions out of large language models like the ones that OpenAI offers. For best performance, we recommend you read their [prompting guide](https://beta.openai.com/docs/guides/completion/prompt-design) before trying your hand at prompt templating.
</Tip>

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_c
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    prompt_template = 'input your query here',
    max_tokens = 100,
    temperature = 0.3,
    api_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY';
```

Where:

| Expression                   | Description                                                                                                                          |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `project_a.openai_test_c`    | The model name is `openai_test_c` and it resides inside the `project_a` project.                                                     |
| `answer`                     | It is the value to be predicted.                                                                                                     |
| `engine`                     | The `openai` engine is used.                                                                                                         |
| `prompt_template`            | It is the column that stores a query to be answered. *Please note that this parameter can be overriden at prediction time.*            |
| `max_tokens`                 | It defines the maximum token cost of the prediction. *Please note that this parameter can be overriden at prediction time.*            |
| `temperature`                | It defines how *risky* the answers are. The value of `0` marks a well-defined answer, and the value of `0.9` marks a more creative answer. *Please note that this parameter can be overriden at prediction time.*|
| `api_key`                    | Optional. If it is left blank, or the `env` value is passed, then MindsDB fetches the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable value.   |

Let's create a model:

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_c
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    prompt_template = 'Context: {{context}}. Question: {{question}}. Answer:',
    max_tokens = 100,
    temperature = 0.3;
```

Let's look at an example that uses parameters provided at model creation time.

```sql
SELECT context, question, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_c
WHERE context = 'Answer accurately'
AND question = 'How many planets exist in the solar system?';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
|context            |question                                   |answer                                        |
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
|Answer accurately  |How many planets exist in the solar system?| There are eight planets in the solar system. |
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
```

Now let's look at an example that overrides parameters at prediction time.

```sql
SELECT instruction, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_c
WHERE instruction = 'Speculate extensively'
USING
    prompt_template = '{{instruction}}. What does Tom Hanks like?',
    max_tokens = 100,
    temperature = 0.5;
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|instruction           |answer                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|Speculate extensively |Some people speculate that Tom Hanks likes to play golf, while others believe that he enjoys acting and directing. It is also speculated that he likes to spend time with his family and friends, and that he enjoys traveling.|
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## Example

Let's go through a sentiment classification example to understand better how to bring OpenAI models to MindsDB as AI tables.

```sql
CREATE MODEL mindsdb.sentiment_classifier                           
PREDICT sentiment
USING
  engine = 'openai',              
  prompt_template = 'predict the sentiment of the text:{{review}} exactly as either positive or negative or neutral';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
Query successfully completed
```

Where:

| Expressions      | Values                                                                                               |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `project_name`   | `mindsdb`                                                                                            |
| `predictor_name` | `sentiment_classifier`                                                                               |
| `target_column`  | `sentiment`                                                                                          |
| `engine`         | `openai`                                                                                             |
| `prompt_template`| `predict the sentiment of the text:{{review}} exactly as either positive or negative or neutral`     |

<Note>
In the `prompt_template` parameter, we use a placeholder for a text value that comes from the `review` column, that is, `text:{{review}}`.
</Note>

Before querying for predictions, we should verify the status of the `sentiment_classifier` model.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM mindsdb.models
WHERE name = 'sentiment_classifier';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+--------------------+------+-------+-------+--------+--------+---------+-------------+---------------+------+-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
|NAME                |ENGINE|PROJECT|VERSION|STATUS  |ACCURACY|PREDICT  |UPDATE_STATUS|MINDSDB_VERSION|ERROR |SELECT_DATA_QUERY|TRAINING_OPTIONS                                                                                                                                       |TAG    |
+--------------------+------+-------+-------+--------+--------+---------+-------------+---------------+------+-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
|sentiment_classifier|openai|mindsdb|1      |complete|[NULL]  |sentiment|up_to_date   |22.12.4.3      |[NULL]|[NULL]           |{'target': 'sentiment', 'using': {'prompt_template': 'predict the sentiment of the text:{{review}} exactly as either positive or negative or neutral'}}|[NULL] |
+--------------------+------+-------+-------+--------+--------+---------+-------------+---------------+------+-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
```

Once the status is `complete`, we can query for predictions.

```sql
SELECT output.sentiment, input.review
FROM example_db.demo_data.amazon_reviews AS input
JOIN mindsdb.sentiment_classifier AS output
LIMIT 3;
```

<Note>
    Don't forget to create the `example_db` database before using one of its tables, like in the query above.

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE example_db
    WITH ENGINE = "postgres",
    PARAMETERS = {
        "user": "demo_user",
        "password": "demo_password",
        "host": "3.220.66.106",
        "port": "5432",
        "database": "demo"
        };
    ```
</Note>

On execution, we get:

```sql
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sentiment                              | review                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| positive                               | Late gift for my grandson. He is very happy with it. Easy for him (9yo ).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| The sentiment of the text is positive. | I'm not super thrilled with the proprietary OS on this unit, but it does work okay and does what I need it to do. Appearance is very nice, price is very good and I can't complain too much - just wish it were easier (or at least more obvious) to port new apps onto it. For now, it helps me see things that are too small on my phone while I'm traveling. I'm a happy buyer.|
| positive                               | I purchased this Kindle Fire HD 8 was purchased for use by 5 and 8 yer old grandchildren. They basically use it to play Amazon games that you download.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

Commit message:

added model_name parameter to openai docs

docs/custom-model/openai.mdx, after:

---
title: MindsDB and OpenAI
sidebarTitle: OpenAI
---

MindsDB lets you create models that utilize features provided by OpenAI GPT-3.

## How to Bring the OpenAI Model to MindsDB

We use the [`CREATE MODEL`](/sql/create/predictor) statement to bring the OpenAI models to MindsDB.

Let's go through the available operation modes.

<Tip>
Please note that the examples presented here use SQL. To see how to create OpenAI models in Mongo database using MQL, check out [this example on sentiment classification](/nlp/nlp-mindsdb-openai#example-using-mql).
</Tip>

### Operation Mode 1: Answering Questions without Context

Here is how to create a model that answers questions without context:

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_a
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question',
    model_name = 'model_name'
    api_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY';
```

Where:

| Expression                   | Description                                                                                                                                                  |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `project_a.openai_test_a`    | The model name is `openai_test_a` and it resides inside the `project_a` project. Learn more about [MindsDB projects here](/sql/project/).                    |
| `answer`                     | It is the value to be predicted.                                                                                                                             |
| `engine`                     | The `openai` engine is used.                                                                                                                                 |
| `question_column`            | It is the column that stores input data.                                                                                                                     |
| `model_name`                 | By default, the `text-davinci-002` model is used. If you prefer to use a cheaper model or a model that was fine-tuned outside of MindsDB, use this parameter.|
| `api_key`                    | Optional. If it is left blank, or the `env` value is passed, then MindsDB fetches the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable value.                           |

Let's look at an example.

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_a
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
Query successfully completed
```

Now we can query for answers.

```sql
SELECT question, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_a
WHERE question = 'Where is Stockholm located?';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+---------------------------+-------------------------------+
|question                   |answer                         |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------+
|Where is Stockholm located?|Stockholm is located in Sweden.|
+---------------------------+-------------------------------+
```

### Operation Mode 2: Answering Questions with Context

Here is how to create a model that answers questions with context:

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_b
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question',
    context_column = 'context',
    api_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY';
```

Where:

| Expression                   | Description                                                                                                                          |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `project_a.openai_test_b`    | The model name is `openai_test_b` and it resides inside the `project_a` project.                                                     |
| `answer`                     | It is the value to be predicted.                                                                                                     |
| `engine`                     | The `openai` engine is used.                                                                                                         |
| `question_column`            | It is the column that stores input data being a question.                                                                            |
| `context_column`             | It is the column that stores input data being a context.                                                                             |
| `api_key`                    | Optional. If it is left blank, or the `env` value is passed, then MindsDB fetches the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable value.   |

Let's look at an example.

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_b
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    question_column = 'question',
    context_column = 'context';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
Query successfully completed
```

Now we can query for answers.

```sql
SELECT context, question, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_b
WHERE context = 'Answer with a joke'
AND question = 'How to cook soup?';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+-------------------+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
|context            |question          |answer                                                   |
+-------------------+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
|Answer with a joke |How to cook soup? |How do you cook soup? You put it in a pot and heat it up!|
+-------------------+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Operation Mode 3: Prompt Completion

Here is how to create a model that offers the most flexible mode of operation. It answers any query provided in the `prompt_template` parameter.

<Tip>
Good prompts are the key to getting great completions out of large language models like the ones that OpenAI offers. For best performance, we recommend you read their [prompting guide](https://beta.openai.com/docs/guides/completion/prompt-design) before trying your hand at prompt templating.
</Tip>

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_c
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    prompt_template = 'input your query here',
    max_tokens = 100,
    temperature = 0.3,
    api_key = 'YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY';
```

Where:

| Expression                   | Description                                                                                                                          |
|------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `project_a.openai_test_c`    | The model name is `openai_test_c` and it resides inside the `project_a` project.                                                     |
| `answer`                     | It is the value to be predicted.                                                                                                     |
| `engine`                     | The `openai` engine is used.                                                                                                         |
| `prompt_template`            | It is the column that stores a query to be answered. *Please note that this parameter can be overriden at prediction time.*            |
| `max_tokens`                 | It defines the maximum token cost of the prediction. *Please note that this parameter can be overriden at prediction time.*            |
| `temperature`                | It defines how *risky* the answers are. The value of `0` marks a well-defined answer, and the value of `0.9` marks a more creative answer. *Please note that this parameter can be overriden at prediction time.*|
| `api_key`                    | Optional. If it is left blank, or the `env` value is passed, then MindsDB fetches the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable value.   |

Let's create a model:

```sql
CREATE MODEL project_a.openai_test_c
PREDICT answer
USING
    engine = 'openai',
    prompt_template = 'Context: {{context}}. Question: {{question}}. Answer:',
    max_tokens = 100,
    temperature = 0.3;
```

Let's look at an example that uses parameters provided at model creation time.

```sql
SELECT context, question, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_c
WHERE context = 'Answer accurately'
AND question = 'How many planets exist in the solar system?';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
|context            |question                                   |answer                                        |
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
|Answer accurately  |How many planets exist in the solar system?| There are eight planets in the solar system. |
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
```

Now let's look at an example that overrides parameters at prediction time.

```sql
SELECT instruction, answer
FROM project_a.openai_test_c
WHERE instruction = 'Speculate extensively'
USING
    prompt_template = '{{instruction}}. What does Tom Hanks like?',
    max_tokens = 100,
    temperature = 0.5;
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|instruction           |answer                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|Speculate extensively |Some people speculate that Tom Hanks likes to play golf, while others believe that he enjoys acting and directing. It is also speculated that he likes to spend time with his family and friends, and that he enjoys traveling.|
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## Example

Let's go through a sentiment classification example to understand better how to bring OpenAI models to MindsDB as AI tables.

```sql
CREATE MODEL mindsdb.sentiment_classifier                           
PREDICT sentiment
USING
  engine = 'openai',              
  prompt_template = 'predict the sentiment of the text:{{review}} exactly as either positive or negative or neutral';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
Query successfully completed
```

Where:

| Expressions      | Values                                                                                               |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `project_name`   | `mindsdb`                                                                                            |
| `predictor_name` | `sentiment_classifier`                                                                               |
| `target_column`  | `sentiment`                                                                                          |
| `engine`         | `openai`                                                                                             |
| `prompt_template`| `predict the sentiment of the text:{{review}} exactly as either positive or negative or neutral`     |

<Note>
In the `prompt_template` parameter, we use a placeholder for a text value that comes from the `review` column, that is, `text:{{review}}`.
</Note>

Before querying for predictions, we should verify the status of the `sentiment_classifier` model.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM mindsdb.models
WHERE name = 'sentiment_classifier';
```

On execution, we get:

```sql
+--------------------+------+-------+-------+--------+--------+---------+-------------+---------------+------+-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
|NAME                |ENGINE|PROJECT|VERSION|STATUS  |ACCURACY|PREDICT  |UPDATE_STATUS|MINDSDB_VERSION|ERROR |SELECT_DATA_QUERY|TRAINING_OPTIONS                                                                                                                                       |TAG    |
+--------------------+------+-------+-------+--------+--------+---------+-------------+---------------+------+-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
|sentiment_classifier|openai|mindsdb|1      |complete|[NULL]  |sentiment|up_to_date   |22.12.4.3      |[NULL]|[NULL]           |{'target': 'sentiment', 'using': {'prompt_template': 'predict the sentiment of the text:{{review}} exactly as either positive or negative or neutral'}}|[NULL] |
+--------------------+------+-------+-------+--------+--------+---------+-------------+---------------+------+-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------+
```

Once the status is `complete`, we can query for predictions.

```sql
SELECT output.sentiment, input.review
FROM example_db.demo_data.amazon_reviews AS input
JOIN mindsdb.sentiment_classifier AS output
LIMIT 3;
```

<Note>
    Don't forget to create the `example_db` database before using one of its tables, like in the query above.

    ```sql
    CREATE DATABASE example_db
    WITH ENGINE = "postgres",
    PARAMETERS = {
        "user": "demo_user",
        "password": "demo_password",
        "host": "3.220.66.106",
        "port": "5432",
        "database": "demo"
        };
    ```
</Note>

On execution, we get:

```sql
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| sentiment                              | review                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| positive                               | Late gift for my grandson. He is very happy with it. Easy for him (9yo ).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| The sentiment of the text is positive. | I'm not super thrilled with the proprietary OS on this unit, but it does work okay and does what I need it to do. Appearance is very nice, price is very good and I can't complain too much - just wish it were easier (or at least more obvious) to port new apps onto it. For now, it helps me see things that are too small on my phone while I'm traveling. I'm a happy buyer.|
| positive                               | I purchased this Kindle Fire HD 8 was purchased for use by 5 and 8 yer old grandchildren. They basically use it to play Amazon games that you download.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```
