docs/tutorials.mdx, before:

---
title: Community Tutorials List
sidebarTitle: Community Tutorials List
---

- [Deploying MindsDB on Scaleway Cloud](https://dev.to/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-scaleway-cloud-4kc6)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predict Tesla Stock Prices using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-tesla-stock-prices-using-mindsdb-40k5)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Creating Views with MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/creating-views-with-mindsdb-1mnf)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Logistics Quality using MindsDB](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-logistics-quality-using-mindsdb-2n9d)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Predict Wine Quality using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-wine-quality-using-mindsdb-1521)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Employee Attrition & Performance using MindsDB Cloud](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-employee-attrition-performance-using-mindsdb-cloud-3cm6)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Deploying MindsDB on Oracle Cloud](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-oracle-cloud-164d)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predict Water Quality using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-water-quality-using-mindsdb-4hm4)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Life Expectancy using MindsDB Cloud](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-life-expectancy-using-mindsdb-cloud-3643)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Predict Purchasing Power per Country using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-purchasing-power-per-country-using-mindsdb-1oh7)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Data Science Job Salaries using MindsDB Cloud](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/predicting-data-science-job-salaries-using-mindsdb-cloud-1lgn)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Used Car Prices using MindsDB](https://tealfeed.com/predicting-used-car-prices-using-mindsdb-idzuc)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on a Digital Ocean Droplet](https://dev.to/heyrutam/deploying-mindsdb-on-a-digital-ocean-droplet-31ed)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on a Vultr Cloud Instance](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-a-vultr-cloud-instance-40bm)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on Civo Compute](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-civo-compute-2kgo)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on Google Cloud Platform](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-google-cloud-platform-41h9)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [How To Maintain ML-Analytics Cycle With Headless BI](https://medium.com/gooddata-developers/how-to-maintain-ml-analytics-cycle-with-headless-bi-815aceac5027?source=friends_link&sk=45f102ce4a54a6ae8c4dddc900aeebb9)
  by [Jan Kadlec](https://medium.com/@jkadlec)
- [How To Visualize MindsDB Predictions with Tableau](https://dev.to/ephraimx/how-to-visualize-mindsdb-predictions-with-tableau-2bpd)
  by [Ephraimx](https://dev.to/ephraimx)
- [Predicting Supermarket Future Sales Using Machine Learning with MindsDB](https://dev.to/ephraimx/predicting-future-sales-using-machine-learning-with-mindsdb-3p70)
  by [Ephraimx](https://dev.to/ephraimx)
- [Predicting Home Rental Prices with MindsDB in Python](https://curiousprogrammer.hashnode.dev/predicting-home-rental-prices-with-mindsdb-in-python)
  by [Temidayo](https://hashnode.com/@Temicoder)
- [MindsDB: Your Introduction to Creating Machine Learning Predictive Models](https://dev.to/chandrevdw31/mindsdb-your-introduction-to-creating-machine-learning-predictive-models-12d3)
  by [Chandre Van Der Westhuizen](https://github.com/chandrevdw31)
- [Self-Service Machine Learning with Intelligent Databases](https://medium.com/mindsdb/self-service-machine-learning-with-intelligent-databases-ea628aa85f1e)
  by [MindsDB Team](https://medium.com/@mindsdbteam)
- [How To Forecast Purchase Orders for Shopify Stores Using Open-Source](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/how-to-forecast-purchase-orders-for-shopify-stores-using-open-source-db82afec12fe)
  by [John Lafleur](https://medium.com/@jeanlafleur)
- [MindsDB: Your introduction to creating machine learning predictive models.](https://dev.to/chandrevdw31/mindsdb-your-introduction-to-creating-machine-learning-predictive-models-12d3)
  by [Chandre Van Der Westhuizen](https://dev.to/chandrevdw31)
- [Predicting Loan Default using Machine Learning with MindsDB](https://medium.com/@godsenteliel/predicting-loan-default-using-machine-learning-with-mindsdb-187ae59da5d)
  by [Eliel Godsent](https://medium.com/@godsenteliel)
- [Multivariate time series forecasts inside databases with MindsDB and PyTorch](https://medium.com/mindsdb/multivariate-time-series-forecasts-inside-databases-with-mindsdb-and-pytorch-13745ada6b7e)
  by [Patricio Cerda Mardini](https://medium.com/@paxcema)
- [How to bring your own machine learning model to databases](https://medium.com/mindsdb/how-to-bring-your-own-machine-learning-model-to-databases-47a188d6db00)
  by [Patricio Cerda Mardini](https://medium.com/@paxcema)
- [Introduction to AI Tables](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/introduction-to-ai-tables-a719251e1a58)
  by [Javi Sánchez](https://medium.com/@javi_sanchez)
- [Model agnostic confidence estimation with conformal predictors for AutoML](https://medium.com/mindsdb/model-agnostic-confidence-estimation-with-conformal-predictors-for-automl-55fce87ef42a)
  by [Patricio Cerda Mardini](https://medium.com/@paxcema)
- [Predict insurance cost using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma/predict-insurance-cost-using-mindsdb-54b6a331fea8)
  by [Kinie K Kusuma](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma)
- [Forecast bitcoin price using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma/forecast-bitcoin-price-using-mindsdb-75f9f0500e86)
  by [Kinie K Kusuma](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma)
- [Predicting car prices using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@pipboyguy/predicting-car-prices-using-mindsdb-c7dd51919b83)
  by [Marcel Coetzee](https://medium.com/@pipboyguy)
- [Predict Gold Prices Using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@alissatroianonyc/predict-gold-prices-using-mindsdb-9da57d24ddab)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [MindsDB: Predicting Supply Chain Demand with Machine Learning using SQL](https://www.devforce.one/18303637/mindsdb-predicting-supply-chain-demand-with-machine-learning-using-sql#/)
  by [Chandre Van Der Westhuizen](https://github.com/chandrevdw31)
- [Predicting Poker Hand Strength with MindsDB](https://teslimodus.medium.com/predicting-poker-hand-strength-with-mindsdb-d541c73009a2)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://medium.com/@teslimodus)
- [Why Your Database Needs a Machine Learning Brain](https://medium.com/mindsdb/why-your-database-needs-a-machine-learning-brain-fc580fac47e4)
  by [James Wilson](https://medium.com/@jameswilsonai)
- [Machine Learning for a Shopify store — a step-by-step guide](https://medium.com/mindsdb/machine-learning-for-a-shopify-store-a-step-by-step-guide-13d192532697)
  by [James Wilson](https://medium.com/@jameswilsonai)
- [Predicting Home Rental Prices with MindsDB in Java](https://curiousprogrammer.hashnode.dev/machine-learning-with-mindsdb-in-java)
  by [Temidayo](https://hashnode.com/@Temicoder)
- [Predicting Mobile Phone Price using MindsDB Cloud](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-mobile-phone-price-using-mindsdb-cloud-23d5)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Predicting Machine Failure Rates using MindsDB](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/predicting-machine-failure-rates-using-mindsdb-4dkn)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Turbine Yield Energy using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@dhaneshvijay10/want-to-do-ml-without-knowing-ml-5f4934942019)
  by [DhaneshRagu](https://medium.com/@dhaneshvijay10)
- [Predicting Store Sales Data using MindsDB](https://dev.to/kevinheng/predict-store-sales-data-with-mindsdb-using-machine-learning-and-sql-2af8)
  by [Kevin Heng](https://github.com/HengKevin)
- [Using MindsDB to Predict Future Retail Sales](https://medium.com/@alissatroianonyc/using-mindsdb-to-predict-future-retail-sales-a300f63a086b)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Predicting the Rating of Cars using Mindsdb](https://atharva08.hashnode.dev/predicting-the-rating-of-cars-using-mindsdb)
  by [Atharva Shirdhankar](https://github.com/StarTrooper08)
- [Predicting & Visualizing Hourly Electricity Demand in the US with MindsDB and Tableau](https://teslimodus.medium.com/predicting-visualizing-hourly-electricity-demand-in-the-us-with-mindsdb-and-tableau-126d1c74d860)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://teslimodus.medium.com/)
- [Bank Customer Churn Prediction using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@ayushsharmaa101/thanks-for-reading-dfec90467ddb)
  by [Ayush Sharma](https://github.com/ayushthe1)
- [Let's connect Mindsdb with Mariadb shell Locally and Predict the Mobile Price](https://atharva08.hashnode.dev/lets-connect-mindsdb-with-mariadb-shell-locally-and-predict-the-mobile-price-range)
  by [Atharva Shirdhankar](https://github.com/StarTrooper08)
- [Gold price prediction using MindsDB](https://dev.to/purgecodee/predicting-gold-price-with-mindsdb-205n)
  by [Pritish Sinha](https://github.com/Pritish-Sinha)
- [What is MindsDB?](https://medium.com/@okekeebubechukwu08/what-is-mindsdb-b6862af21492)
  by [Gloria Okeke E.J](https://medium.com/@okekeebubechukwu08)
- [Forecasting Honey Production with MindsDB](https://dev.to/narayanadithya/using-mindsdb-for-time-series-forecasting-honey-production-in-the-usa-4p05)
  by [Adithya Narayan](https://github.com/NarayanAdithya)
- [Predicting the Genre of Books using MongoDB with MindsDB](https://dev.to/sarveshk76/tutorial-to-predict-the-genre-of-books-using-mongodb-2a1n)
  by [Sarvesh S. Kulkarni](https://github.com/Sarveshk76)
- [Predicting gold prices with MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/yagueto/predicting-gold-prices-with-mindsdb-and-mongodb-4k22)
  by [yagueto](https://github.com/yagueto)
- [Predicting the Genre of Books using MongoDB with MindsDB](https://dev.to/sarveshk76/tutorial-to-predict-the-genre-of-books-using-mongodb-2a1n)
  by [Sarvesh S. Kulkarni](https://github.com/Sarveshk76)
- [Predict Diamond prices with SQL Alchemy](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predict-diamond-prices-with-sql-alchemy-and-mindsdb-b4e)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predict Municipal Debt Risk Analysis](https://teslimodus.medium.com/predict-municipal-debt-risk-analysis-5c5416502a29)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [What is MindsDB? How to get started with it ](https://medium.com/@hritikd3/what-is-mindsdb-how-to-get-started-2b3cf6d99707)
  by [Hritik Dangi](https://github.com/hritikd3)
- [How to Design a custom mixer model in Lightwood](https://medium.com/@teslimodus/introduction-e2f933c40f4c)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predicting & Visualizing Petroleum Production with MindsDB and Tableau](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predicting-visualizing-petroleum-production-with-mindsdb-and-tableau-373f)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predicting & Visualizing Gas Prices with MindsDB and Tableau](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predicting-visualizing-gas-prices-with-mindsdb-and-tableau-d1p)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predicting Environment Impact of Food Production caused by C02 Emission](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predicting-environment-impact-of-food-production-caused-by-c02-emission-51e3)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Using MindsDB to Predict Amazon Rainforest Degradation](https://medium.com/@alissatroianonyc/nusing-mindsdb-to-predict-amazon-rainforest-degradation-1ccb8e993e48)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [How to Design a custom mixer model in Lightwood](https://medium.com/@teslimodus/introduction-e2f933c40f4c)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Using MindsDB to Predict Microsoft Stock Prices ](https://dev.to/viveknshah/using-mindsdb-to-predict-microsoft-stock-prices-3l79)
  by [Vivek Shah](https://github.com/viveknshah)
- [Tutorial to Predict the Weather Using MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/nupoorshetye/tutorial-to-predict-the-weather-using-mindsdb-and-mongodb-3blm)
  by [Nupoor Shetye](https://github.com/Nupoor10)
- [Tutorial to Predict Amsterdam Housing Prices Using MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/nupoorshetye/tutorial-to-predict-amsterdam-housing-prices-using-mindsdb-and-mongodb-nha)
  by [Nupoor Shetye](https://github.com/Nupoor10)

# Community Video Guides

- [Heart Disease Predictor using #MindsDB](https://youtu.be/vtVM6pL1ANo) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Video: What is MindsDB?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SrDPYqQrzaw) by
  [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Connecting MindsDB to Tableau](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eUiBVrm85v4)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Connect Postgres Database to MindsDB](https://youtu.be/jbH5fsviAgE) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Exploring Learning Hub on MindsDB by predicting house rental prices and forecasting house sales](https://youtu.be/Qmk_v0iginw)
  by [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Easily connect to MindsDB Cloud from MongoShell](https://youtube.com/video/ysPRXSgdOVk)
  by [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Singing Up with MindsDB Cloud](https://youtu.be/Y5hZ9GwjsQs) uploaded on
  [ExploringTech](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBMdmavh3528_4Yn6WR7p7Q) by
  [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [How to connect to MindsDB with SQL Alchemy(Python)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYR83QTyOQA)
  by [Nishant Sapkota](https://github.com/thenishantsapkota)
- [What is MindsDB | How to Get Started | A Cloud/AI Enabled Database](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XWDVxYVGH9M)
  by [Arman Chand](https://github.com/ArmanChand)
- [How to deploy MindsDB on your local machine (Docker, PIP)](https://youtu.be/dIbs27Jg1FY)
  by [Munyoudoum Pav](https://github.com/munyoudoum)
- [What are AI Tables and How to use MindsDB ?](https://youtu.be/Wqy_OcKdg-Y) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [What is MindsDB and How to Get Started](https://youtu.be/zHReFuFUI34) by
  [Hritik Dangi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hritikd3/)
- [Setup MindsDB Free Cloud Account in 2 minutes](https://youtu.be/YuwRKZP51xg)
  by [@akhilcoder](https://www.youtube.com/@akhilcoder)
- [What is MindsDB?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i2tMs4MX_yw) uploaded on
  [ExploringTech](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBMdmavh3528_4Yn6WR7p7Q) by
  [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Tutorial: Create a Free MindsDB Cloud Account](https://youtu.be/yfM91zgGr3Q)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [What is MindsDB - AI Database Prediction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ySq7Y3sfJs)
  by [Bhavesh Mishra](https://github.com/thefool76)
- [How to create an account on MindsDB cloud](https://youtu.be/qFQ95MoSE94) by
  [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [Setting Up Docker for MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dadY-cUpUm0&feature=youtu.be)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [How to create a free account on MindsDB Cloud](https://youtu.be/ciBtpqrlbhI)
  by [Anamika](https://github.com/noviicee)
- [How to create a free account on MindsDB Cloud](https://youtu.be/3bGJP6-s8p4)
  by [MichaelLantz](https://github.com/MichaelLantz)
- [Simple starting guide video tutorial for MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z7tRc8JpuRI)
  by [Posterizedsoul](https://github.com/Posterizedsoul)
- [How to connect mongo compass to MindsDB](https://youtube.com/video/ziRxRHvuSJc)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [MindsDB - Predict data with machine learning](https://youtu.be/y2DNgJOplxM)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [Visualizing prediction result in Tableau](https://youtu.be/4aio-8kNbOo) by
  [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [MindsDB Data Insights](https://youtu.be/4oGgocNLi1c) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://www.youtube.com/@akhilcoder)
- [CREATE Predictor with USING statement using Cement Manufacturing Dataset Civil Engineering](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aLP7KLolUSs&t=2s)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [What is MindsDB ?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81Q2aQWuwDM) by
  [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Honey Production Prediction Time Series](https://youtu.be/WCBLotgskZg) by
  [Adithya Narayan](https://github.com/NarayanAdithya)
- [Forecasting Quarterly House Sales with MindsDB](https://youtu.be/RPisvY54Tg4)
  by [Hritik Dangi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hritikd3/)
- [Forecasting Quarterly House Sales with MindsDB](https://youtu.be/WCBLotgskZg)
  by [Adithya Narayan](https://github.com/NarayanAdithya)
- [How to access MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8F5p_Rwmvgk) by
  [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Predict house prices with MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p2j696YgFN4)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [Deploying an instance of MindsDB on Google Cloud Platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OrW-8ciNGng)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Connecting MindsDB to Tableau](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eUiBVrm85v4)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Integrating MindsDB into MongoDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwUGBbNkyks)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Deploy MindsDB on the Google Cloud Platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLdb7UNi4bk)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Regression Tutorial - Home Rentals](https://youtu.be/qf4HQ4EzaUU) by
  [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Setting up data sources with mindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kRrMjUVnib0)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Integrating your MindsDB instance into MongoDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwUGBbNkyks)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Predicting car prices with MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYSlYBjukNA)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Forcasting quarterly house sales with MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dNjN52xdgVU)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [How Mindsdb is impacting the world of Machine Learning](https://youtu.be/YngjfwJLplA)
  by [Prathik Shetty](https://github.com/prathikshetty2002)

Commit message:

Added my tutorial to the list

docs/tutorials.mdx, after:

---
title: Community Tutorials List
sidebarTitle: Community Tutorials List
---

- [Deploying MindsDB on Scaleway Cloud](https://dev.to/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-scaleway-cloud-4kc6)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predict Tesla Stock Prices using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-tesla-stock-prices-using-mindsdb-40k5)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Creating Views with MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/creating-views-with-mindsdb-1mnf)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Logistics Quality using MindsDB](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-logistics-quality-using-mindsdb-2n9d)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Predict Wine Quality using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-wine-quality-using-mindsdb-1521)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Employee Attrition & Performance using MindsDB Cloud](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-employee-attrition-performance-using-mindsdb-cloud-3cm6)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Deploying MindsDB on Oracle Cloud](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-oracle-cloud-164d)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predict Water Quality using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-water-quality-using-mindsdb-4hm4)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Life Expectancy using MindsDB Cloud](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-life-expectancy-using-mindsdb-cloud-3643)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Predict Purchasing Power per Country using MindsDB](https://dev.to/rutamhere/predict-purchasing-power-per-country-using-mindsdb-1oh7)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Data Science Job Salaries using MindsDB Cloud](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/predicting-data-science-job-salaries-using-mindsdb-cloud-1lgn)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Used Car Prices using MindsDB](https://tealfeed.com/predicting-used-car-prices-using-mindsdb-idzuc)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on a Digital Ocean Droplet](https://dev.to/heyrutam/deploying-mindsdb-on-a-digital-ocean-droplet-31ed)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on a Vultr Cloud Instance](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-a-vultr-cloud-instance-40bm)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on Civo Compute](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-civo-compute-2kgo)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Deploying MindsDB on Google Cloud Platform](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/deploying-mindsdb-on-google-cloud-platform-41h9)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [How To Maintain ML-Analytics Cycle With Headless BI](https://medium.com/gooddata-developers/how-to-maintain-ml-analytics-cycle-with-headless-bi-815aceac5027?source=friends_link&sk=45f102ce4a54a6ae8c4dddc900aeebb9)
  by [Jan Kadlec](https://medium.com/@jkadlec)
- [How To Visualize MindsDB Predictions with Tableau](https://dev.to/ephraimx/how-to-visualize-mindsdb-predictions-with-tableau-2bpd)
  by [Ephraimx](https://dev.to/ephraimx)
- [Predicting Supermarket Future Sales Using Machine Learning with MindsDB](https://dev.to/ephraimx/predicting-future-sales-using-machine-learning-with-mindsdb-3p70)
  by [Ephraimx](https://dev.to/ephraimx)
- [Predicting Home Rental Prices with MindsDB in Python](https://curiousprogrammer.hashnode.dev/predicting-home-rental-prices-with-mindsdb-in-python)
  by [Temidayo](https://hashnode.com/@Temicoder)
- [MindsDB: Your Introduction to Creating Machine Learning Predictive Models](https://dev.to/chandrevdw31/mindsdb-your-introduction-to-creating-machine-learning-predictive-models-12d3)
  by [Chandre Van Der Westhuizen](https://github.com/chandrevdw31)
- [Self-Service Machine Learning with Intelligent Databases](https://medium.com/mindsdb/self-service-machine-learning-with-intelligent-databases-ea628aa85f1e)
  by [MindsDB Team](https://medium.com/@mindsdbteam)
- [How To Forecast Purchase Orders for Shopify Stores Using Open-Source](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/how-to-forecast-purchase-orders-for-shopify-stores-using-open-source-db82afec12fe)
  by [John Lafleur](https://medium.com/@jeanlafleur)
- [MindsDB: Your introduction to creating machine learning predictive models.](https://dev.to/chandrevdw31/mindsdb-your-introduction-to-creating-machine-learning-predictive-models-12d3)
  by [Chandre Van Der Westhuizen](https://dev.to/chandrevdw31)
- [Predicting Loan Default using Machine Learning with MindsDB](https://medium.com/@godsenteliel/predicting-loan-default-using-machine-learning-with-mindsdb-187ae59da5d)
  by [Eliel Godsent](https://medium.com/@godsenteliel)
- [Multivariate time series forecasts inside databases with MindsDB and PyTorch](https://medium.com/mindsdb/multivariate-time-series-forecasts-inside-databases-with-mindsdb-and-pytorch-13745ada6b7e)
  by [Patricio Cerda Mardini](https://medium.com/@paxcema)
- [How to bring your own machine learning model to databases](https://medium.com/mindsdb/how-to-bring-your-own-machine-learning-model-to-databases-47a188d6db00)
  by [Patricio Cerda Mardini](https://medium.com/@paxcema)
- [Introduction to AI Tables](https://medium.com/towards-data-science/introduction-to-ai-tables-a719251e1a58)
  by [Javi Sánchez](https://medium.com/@javi_sanchez)
- [Model agnostic confidence estimation with conformal predictors for AutoML](https://medium.com/mindsdb/model-agnostic-confidence-estimation-with-conformal-predictors-for-automl-55fce87ef42a)
  by [Patricio Cerda Mardini](https://medium.com/@paxcema)
- [Predict insurance cost using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma/predict-insurance-cost-using-mindsdb-54b6a331fea8)
  by [Kinie K Kusuma](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma)
- [Forecast bitcoin price using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma/forecast-bitcoin-price-using-mindsdb-75f9f0500e86)
  by [Kinie K Kusuma](https://medium.com/@kinkusuma)
- [Predicting car prices using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@pipboyguy/predicting-car-prices-using-mindsdb-c7dd51919b83)
  by [Marcel Coetzee](https://medium.com/@pipboyguy)
- [Predict Gold Prices Using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@alissatroianonyc/predict-gold-prices-using-mindsdb-9da57d24ddab)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [MindsDB: Predicting Supply Chain Demand with Machine Learning using SQL](https://www.devforce.one/18303637/mindsdb-predicting-supply-chain-demand-with-machine-learning-using-sql#/)
  by [Chandre Van Der Westhuizen](https://github.com/chandrevdw31)
- [Predicting Poker Hand Strength with MindsDB](https://teslimodus.medium.com/predicting-poker-hand-strength-with-mindsdb-d541c73009a2)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://medium.com/@teslimodus)
- [Why Your Database Needs a Machine Learning Brain](https://medium.com/mindsdb/why-your-database-needs-a-machine-learning-brain-fc580fac47e4)
  by [James Wilson](https://medium.com/@jameswilsonai)
- [Machine Learning for a Shopify store — a step-by-step guide](https://medium.com/mindsdb/machine-learning-for-a-shopify-store-a-step-by-step-guide-13d192532697)
  by [James Wilson](https://medium.com/@jameswilsonai)
- [Predicting Home Rental Prices with MindsDB in Java](https://curiousprogrammer.hashnode.dev/machine-learning-with-mindsdb-in-java)
  by [Temidayo](https://hashnode.com/@Temicoder)
- [Predicting Mobile Phone Price using MindsDB Cloud](https://dev.to/armanchand/predicting-mobile-phone-price-using-mindsdb-cloud-23d5)
  by [Arman Chand](https://dev.to/armanchand)
- [Predicting Machine Failure Rates using MindsDB](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere/predicting-machine-failure-rates-using-mindsdb-4dkn)
  by [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Predicting Turbine Yield Energy using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@dhaneshvijay10/want-to-do-ml-without-knowing-ml-5f4934942019)
  by [DhaneshRagu](https://medium.com/@dhaneshvijay10)
- [Predicting Store Sales Data using MindsDB](https://dev.to/kevinheng/predict-store-sales-data-with-mindsdb-using-machine-learning-and-sql-2af8)
  by [Kevin Heng](https://github.com/HengKevin)
- [Using MindsDB to Predict Future Retail Sales](https://medium.com/@alissatroianonyc/using-mindsdb-to-predict-future-retail-sales-a300f63a086b)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Predicting the Rating of Cars using Mindsdb](https://atharva08.hashnode.dev/predicting-the-rating-of-cars-using-mindsdb)
  by [Atharva Shirdhankar](https://github.com/StarTrooper08)
- [Predicting & Visualizing Hourly Electricity Demand in the US with MindsDB and Tableau](https://teslimodus.medium.com/predicting-visualizing-hourly-electricity-demand-in-the-us-with-mindsdb-and-tableau-126d1c74d860)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://teslimodus.medium.com/)
- [Bank Customer Churn Prediction using MindsDB](https://medium.com/@ayushsharmaa101/thanks-for-reading-dfec90467ddb)
  by [Ayush Sharma](https://github.com/ayushthe1)
- [Let's connect Mindsdb with Mariadb shell Locally and Predict the Mobile Price](https://atharva08.hashnode.dev/lets-connect-mindsdb-with-mariadb-shell-locally-and-predict-the-mobile-price-range)
  by [Atharva Shirdhankar](https://github.com/StarTrooper08)
- [Gold price prediction using MindsDB](https://dev.to/purgecodee/predicting-gold-price-with-mindsdb-205n)
  by [Pritish Sinha](https://github.com/Pritish-Sinha)
- [What is MindsDB?](https://medium.com/@okekeebubechukwu08/what-is-mindsdb-b6862af21492)
  by [Gloria Okeke E.J](https://medium.com/@okekeebubechukwu08)
- [Forecasting Honey Production with MindsDB](https://dev.to/narayanadithya/using-mindsdb-for-time-series-forecasting-honey-production-in-the-usa-4p05)
  by [Adithya Narayan](https://github.com/NarayanAdithya)
- [Predicting the Genre of Books using MongoDB with MindsDB](https://dev.to/sarveshk76/tutorial-to-predict-the-genre-of-books-using-mongodb-2a1n)
  by [Sarvesh S. Kulkarni](https://github.com/Sarveshk76)
- [Predicting gold prices with MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/yagueto/predicting-gold-prices-with-mindsdb-and-mongodb-4k22)
  by [yagueto](https://github.com/yagueto)
- [Predicting the Genre of Books using MongoDB with MindsDB](https://dev.to/sarveshk76/tutorial-to-predict-the-genre-of-books-using-mongodb-2a1n)
  by [Sarvesh S. Kulkarni](https://github.com/Sarveshk76)
- [Predict Diamond prices with SQL Alchemy](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predict-diamond-prices-with-sql-alchemy-and-mindsdb-b4e)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predict Municipal Debt Risk Analysis](https://teslimodus.medium.com/predict-municipal-debt-risk-analysis-5c5416502a29)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [What is MindsDB? How to get started with it ](https://medium.com/@hritikd3/what-is-mindsdb-how-to-get-started-2b3cf6d99707)
  by [Hritik Dangi](https://github.com/hritikd3)
- [How to Design a custom mixer model in Lightwood](https://medium.com/@teslimodus/introduction-e2f933c40f4c)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predicting & Visualizing Petroleum Production with MindsDB and Tableau](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predicting-visualizing-petroleum-production-with-mindsdb-and-tableau-373f)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predicting & Visualizing Gas Prices with MindsDB and Tableau](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predicting-visualizing-gas-prices-with-mindsdb-and-tableau-d1p)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Predicting Environment Impact of Food Production caused by C02 Emission](https://dev.to/tesprogram/predicting-environment-impact-of-food-production-caused-by-c02-emission-51e3)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Using MindsDB to Predict Amazon Rainforest Degradation](https://medium.com/@alissatroianonyc/nusing-mindsdb-to-predict-amazon-rainforest-degradation-1ccb8e993e48)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [How to Design a custom mixer model in Lightwood](https://medium.com/@teslimodus/introduction-e2f933c40f4c)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Using MindsDB to Predict Microsoft Stock Prices ](https://dev.to/viveknshah/using-mindsdb-to-predict-microsoft-stock-prices-3l79)
  by [Vivek Shah](https://github.com/viveknshah)
- [Tutorial to Predict the Weather Using MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/nupoorshetye/tutorial-to-predict-the-weather-using-mindsdb-and-mongodb-3blm)
  by [Nupoor Shetye](https://github.com/Nupoor10)
- [Tutorial to Predict Amsterdam Housing Prices Using MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/nupoorshetye/tutorial-to-predict-amsterdam-housing-prices-using-mindsdb-and-mongodb-nha)
  by [Nupoor Shetye](https://github.com/Nupoor10)
- [Tutorial to Predict the Energy Usage using MindsDB and MongoDB](https://dev.to/dohrisalim/tutorial-to-predict-the-energy-usage-using-mindsdb-and-mongodb-g60)
  by [Salim Dohri](https://github.com/dohrisalim)

# Community Video Guides

- [Heart Disease Predictor using #MindsDB](https://youtu.be/vtVM6pL1ANo) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Video: What is MindsDB?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SrDPYqQrzaw) by
  [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Connecting MindsDB to Tableau](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eUiBVrm85v4)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Connect Postgres Database to MindsDB](https://youtu.be/jbH5fsviAgE) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Exploring Learning Hub on MindsDB by predicting house rental prices and forecasting house sales](https://youtu.be/Qmk_v0iginw)
  by [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Easily connect to MindsDB Cloud from MongoShell](https://youtube.com/video/ysPRXSgdOVk)
  by [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [Singing Up with MindsDB Cloud](https://youtu.be/Y5hZ9GwjsQs) uploaded on
  [ExploringTech](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBMdmavh3528_4Yn6WR7p7Q) by
  [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [How to connect to MindsDB with SQL Alchemy(Python)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYR83QTyOQA)
  by [Nishant Sapkota](https://github.com/thenishantsapkota)
- [What is MindsDB | How to Get Started | A Cloud/AI Enabled Database](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XWDVxYVGH9M)
  by [Arman Chand](https://github.com/ArmanChand)
- [How to deploy MindsDB on your local machine (Docker, PIP)](https://youtu.be/dIbs27Jg1FY)
  by [Munyoudoum Pav](https://github.com/munyoudoum)
- [What are AI Tables and How to use MindsDB ?](https://youtu.be/Wqy_OcKdg-Y) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://twitter.com/akhilcoder)
- [What is MindsDB and How to Get Started](https://youtu.be/zHReFuFUI34) by
  [Hritik Dangi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hritikd3/)
- [Setup MindsDB Free Cloud Account in 2 minutes](https://youtu.be/YuwRKZP51xg)
  by [@akhilcoder](https://www.youtube.com/@akhilcoder)
- [What is MindsDB?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i2tMs4MX_yw) uploaded on
  [ExploringTech](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCBMdmavh3528_4Yn6WR7p7Q) by
  [Rutam Prita Mishra](https://community.ops.io/rutamhere)
- [Tutorial: Create a Free MindsDB Cloud Account](https://youtu.be/yfM91zgGr3Q)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [What is MindsDB - AI Database Prediction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ySq7Y3sfJs)
  by [Bhavesh Mishra](https://github.com/thefool76)
- [How to create an account on MindsDB cloud](https://youtu.be/qFQ95MoSE94) by
  [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [Setting Up Docker for MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dadY-cUpUm0&feature=youtu.be)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [How to create a free account on MindsDB Cloud](https://youtu.be/ciBtpqrlbhI)
  by [Anamika](https://github.com/noviicee)
- [How to create a free account on MindsDB Cloud](https://youtu.be/3bGJP6-s8p4)
  by [MichaelLantz](https://github.com/MichaelLantz)
- [Simple starting guide video tutorial for MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z7tRc8JpuRI)
  by [Posterizedsoul](https://github.com/Posterizedsoul)
- [How to connect mongo compass to MindsDB](https://youtube.com/video/ziRxRHvuSJc)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [MindsDB - Predict data with machine learning](https://youtu.be/y2DNgJOplxM)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [Visualizing prediction result in Tableau](https://youtu.be/4aio-8kNbOo) by
  [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [MindsDB Data Insights](https://youtu.be/4oGgocNLi1c) by
  [@akhilcoder](https://www.youtube.com/@akhilcoder)
- [CREATE Predictor with USING statement using Cement Manufacturing Dataset Civil Engineering](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aLP7KLolUSs&t=2s)
  by [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [What is MindsDB ?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81Q2aQWuwDM) by
  [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Honey Production Prediction Time Series](https://youtu.be/WCBLotgskZg) by
  [Adithya Narayan](https://github.com/NarayanAdithya)
- [Forecasting Quarterly House Sales with MindsDB](https://youtu.be/RPisvY54Tg4)
  by [Hritik Dangi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hritikd3/)
- [Forecasting Quarterly House Sales with MindsDB](https://youtu.be/WCBLotgskZg)
  by [Adithya Narayan](https://github.com/NarayanAdithya)
- [How to access MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8F5p_Rwmvgk) by
  [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Predict house prices with MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p2j696YgFN4)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [Deploying an instance of MindsDB on Google Cloud Platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OrW-8ciNGng)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Connecting MindsDB to Tableau](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eUiBVrm85v4)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Integrating MindsDB into MongoDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwUGBbNkyks)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Deploy MindsDB on the Google Cloud Platform](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLdb7UNi4bk)
  by [Alissa Troiano](https://github.com/alissatroiano)
- [Regression Tutorial - Home Rentals](https://youtu.be/qf4HQ4EzaUU) by
  [Teslim Odumuyiwa](https://github.com/Tes-program)
- [Setting up data sources with mindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kRrMjUVnib0)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Integrating your MindsDB instance into MongoDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xwUGBbNkyks)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Predicting car prices with MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYSlYBjukNA)
  by [Syed Zubeen](https://github.com/syedzubeen)
- [Forcasting quarterly house sales with MindsDB](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dNjN52xdgVU)
  by [HellFire](https://github.com/Artemis6969)
- [How Mindsdb is impacting the world of Machine Learning](https://youtu.be/YngjfwJLplA)
  by [Prathik Shetty](https://github.com/prathikshetty2002)
