docs/setup/self-hosted/pip/source.mdx, before:

---
title: Setup for Sourcecode via pip
sidebarTitle: Sourcecode via pip
---

This section describes how to deploy MindsDB from the source code. It is the preferred way to use MindsDB if you want to contribute to our code or debug MindsDB.

## Before You Start

There are some points that you should consider before jumping into the
installation. Please have a look at them below.

### Pip and Python Versions

Due to some of our dependencies having issues with the latest versions of Python
3.9.x, we suggest using **Python 3.7.x or 3.8.x versions** for now. We are
working on Python 3.9.x to be supported soon.

To successfully install MindsDB, use **Python 64-bit version**. Also, make sure
that **Python >= 3.7** and **pip >= 19.3**. You can check the pip and python
versions by running the `pip --version` and
`python --version` commands.

Please note that depending on your environment and installed pip and python
packages, you might have to use **pip3** instead of **pip** or **python3.x**
instead of **py**. For example, `pip3 install mindsdb` instead of
`pip install mindsdb`.

### How to Avoid Dependency Issues

Install MindsDB in a virtual environment using **pip** to avoid dependency
issues.

### How to Avoid Common Errors

MindsDB requires around 3 GB of free disk space to install all of its
dependencies. Make sure to allocate min. 3 GB of disk space to avoid the
`IOError: [Errno 28] No space left on device while installing MindsDB` error.

Before anything, activate your virtual environment where your MindsDB is
installed. It is to avoid the `No module named mindsdb` error.

The `ImportError: No module named {dependency name}` error may occur if you skip
step 3 of the [Installation](#installation) section. Make sure you install all
of the prerequisites.

If you encounter the `This site can’t be reached. 127.0.0.1 refused to connect.`
error, please check the MindsDB server console to see if the server is still in
the `starting` phase. But if the server has started and you still get this
error, please report it on our
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/issues).

## Installation

1. Clone the MindsDB repository:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:mindsdb/mindsdb.git
   ```

2. Create a new virtual environment called `mindsdb-venv`:

   ```bash
   python -m venv mindsdb-venv
   ```

   Now, activate it:

   ```bash
   source mindsdb-venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install MindsDB prerequisites:

   ```bash
   cd mindsdb && pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Install MindsDB:

   ```bash
   python setup.py develop
   ```

5. Verify MindsDB installation by starting the MindsDB server:

   ```bash
   python -m mindsdb
   ```

6. Now, you can access the following:

<CodeGroup>

```bash MindsDB APIs
http://127.0.0.1:47334/api
```

```bash MindsDB Studio
http://127.0.0.1:47334/
```

```bash MindsDB using MySQL
mysql -h 127.0.0.1 --port 3306 -u mindsdb -p
```

</CodeGroup>

## Further Issues?

You can try to replicate your issue using the
[Docker setup](/setup/self-hosted/docker/).

Also, please create an issue with detailed description in the
[MindsDB GitHub repository](https://github.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/issues) so we can
help you. Usually, we review issues and respond within a few hours.

<Tip>
**What's next?** We recommend you follow one of our tutorials or learn more about the
[MindsDB Database](/sql/table-structure/).

</Tip>

Commit message:

Docs improvements (#4258)
* Fix query, remove html tags

* Quickstart imprvements

* Add warning about mysql +8

* Change url to mongo compass

* Format code

* Add new dir structure of handlers

* Remove unused API

* Minor changes to links

* Add new mixers

* Add new mixers

* Add case sensitive warning

* Add case sensitive warning

* Minor text changes

docs/setup/self-hosted/pip/source.mdx, after:

---
title: Setup for Sourcecode via pip
sidebarTitle: Sourcecode via pip
---

This section describes how to deploy MindsDB from the source code. It is the preferred way to use MindsDB if you want to contribute to our code or debug MindsDB.

## Before You Start

There are some points that you should consider before jumping into the
installation. Please have a look at them below.

### Pip and Python Versions

Due to some of our dependencies having issues with the latest versions of Python
3.9.x, we suggest using **Python 3.7.x or 3.8.x versions** for now. We are
working on Python 3.9.x to be supported soon.

To successfully install MindsDB, use **Python 64-bit version**. Also, make sure
that **Python >= 3.7** and **pip >= 19.3**. You can check the pip and python
versions by running the `pip --version` and
`python --version` commands.

Please note that depending on your environment and installed pip and python
packages, you might have to use **pip3** instead of **pip** or **python3.x**
instead of **py**. For example, `pip3 install mindsdb` instead of
`pip install mindsdb`.

### How to Avoid Dependency Issues

Install MindsDB in a virtual environment using **pip** to avoid dependency
issues.

### How to Avoid Common Errors

MindsDB requires around 3 GB of free disk space to install all of its
dependencies. Make sure to allocate min. 3 GB of disk space to avoid the
`IOError: [Errno 28] No space left on device while installing MindsDB` error.

Before anything, activate your virtual environment where your MindsDB is
installed. It is to avoid the `No module named mindsdb` error.

The `ImportError: No module named {dependency name}` error may occur if you skip
step 3 of the [Installation](#installation) section. Make sure you install all
of the prerequisites.

If you encounter the `This site can’t be reached. 127.0.0.1 refused to connect.`
error, please check the MindsDB server console to see if the server is still in
the `starting` phase. But if the server has started and you still get this
error, please report it on our
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/issues).

## Installation

1. Clone the MindsDB repository:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:mindsdb/mindsdb.git
   ```

2. Create a new virtual environment called `mindsdb-venv`:

   ```bash
   python -m venv mindsdb-venv
   ```

   Now, activate it:

   ```bash
   source mindsdb-venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install MindsDB prerequisites:

   ```bash
   cd mindsdb && pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Install MindsDB:

   ```bash
   python setup.py develop
   ```

5. Verify MindsDB installation by starting the MindsDB server:

   ```bash
   python -m mindsdb
   ```

6. Now, you can access the following:

<CodeGroup>

```bash MindsDB Studio
http://127.0.0.1:47334/
```

```bash MindsDB using MySQL
mysql -h 127.0.0.1 --port 3306 -u mindsdb -p
```

</CodeGroup>

## Further Issues?

You can try to use
[Docker setup](/setup/self-hosted/docker/) in case you are expiriencing issues using pip.

Also, please create an issue with detailed description in the
[MindsDB GitHub repository](https://github.com/mindsdb/mindsdb/issues) so we can
help you. Usually, we review issues and respond within a few hours.

<Tip>
**What's next?** We recommend you follow one of our tutorials or learn more about the
[MindsDB Database](/sql/table-structure/).

</Tip>
